---
title: ¿Qué es el movimiento Maker?
---

<video src="https://youtu.be/IsRBgBwLwxw" width="640" height="360" controls></video>

## Manifiesto Maker

## MAKE
Making is fundamental to what it means to be human.
We must make, create, and express ourselves to feel
whole. There is something unique about making
physical things. Things we make are like little pieces
of us and seem to embody portions of our soul.


## SHARE
Sharing what you have made and what you know
about making with others is the method by
which a maker’s feeling of wholeness
is achieved. You cannot make and not share.


## GIVE
There are few things more selfless and satisfying
than giving away something you have made. The act
of making puts a small piece of you into the object.
Giving it to someone else is like giving that person a
small piece of yourself. Such things are often
the most cherished items we possess.

## LEARN
You must learn to make. You must always seek to learn
more about your making. You may become a journeyman
or master artisan, but you will still learn, want to learn, 
and push yourself to learn new techniques, materials,
and processes. Building a lifelong learning path
ensures a rich and rewarding making life and,
importantly, enables one to share.

## TOOL UP
You must have access to the right tools for the project at
hand. Invest in and develop local access to the tools you
need to do the making you want to do. The tools of making
have never been cheaper, easier to use, or more powerful.

## PLAY
Be playful with what you are making, and you will be
surprised, excited, and proud of what you discover.

## PARTICIPATE
Join the Maker Movement and reach out to those around
you who are discovering the joy of making. Hold seminars,
parties, events, maker days, fairs, expos, classes, or dinners
with and for the other makers in your community.

## SUPPORT
This is a movement, and it requires support. Emotional,
intellectual, financial, political, and institutional support
are needed. The best hope for improving the world is us,
and we are responsible for making a better future

## CHANGE
Embrace the change that will naturally occur as you go
through your maker journey. Since making is fundamental
to what it means to be human, you will become a more
complete version of you as you make.

## ¿Qué es la educación STEAM?
STEAM, que en ingles es Science, Tecnology, Engineering,  Art, Math. 
Es un sistema de aprendizaje que integra diferentes áreas de estudio en un mismo concepto. 

## ¿Qué es MakerCademy?
Es un sistema educativo que mpulsa la enseñanza en nuevas tecnologías a niños, adolescentes y
jóvenes, para aprender diferentes habilidades y conocimientos para
desarrollar proyectos mediante la tecnología.
MakerCademy sigue las siguientes filosofías:

Aprender fabricando 
Aprender fallando 
Aprender descubriendo 
Aprender deconstruyendo 
Aprender resolviendo problemas reales
Aprender juntos 

Lo que tratamos es que los alumnos aprendan de una manera diferente a la tradicional
para acercar distintos conocimientos y adquieran habilidades diferentes.






## Advanced

